# Cyber-Security-Defense-Cycle

This work was supported by Institute of Information & Communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (No. 2017-0-00421, Cyber Security Defense Cycle Mechanism for New Security Threats)

With the digital transformation into a hyper-connected society through networks such as cloud computing, 5G, and the Internet of things, the importance of cyber-security is increasing to prevent invasion of cyber assets for institutions or companies, service failure, and theft of personal information through networks. In order to cope with various and intelligent cyber-attacks, an intelligent cyber-security technology that can quickly analyze and detect threats and respond to attacks is essential. Firewalls and intrusion detection systems (IDS) are a fundamental element of network security systems with the ability to detecting network anomalies and malicious attacks. They analyze network traffic per packet through predefined rules and artificial intelligence (AI)-based detection models. As one of the proactive defense countermeasures, moving target defense (MTD) randomly changes network configuration to cause confusion or uncertainty for attackers. It is a technology that can prevent attacks in advance by invalidating network and system information collected by the attacker in advance. Software-defined networking (SDN) technology, which can provide flexibility, elasticity, and programmability for network management, has been applied to network security systems. The static legacy approach to cyber-security is redundant, not intelligent, and lacks adaptability. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising approach for intelligent agents to protect a given system under highly hostile environments. RL allows the agent to adaptively make sequential defense decisions based on the perceived current state of system security aiming to achieve the maximum defense performance in terms of fast, efficient, and automated detection, threat analysis, and response to the threat. In this dissertation, we propose an SDN-based defense cycle for an intelligent and adaptable cyber-security system using a firewall, IDS, MTD, and RL technologies.
